* [Joshua Riek's Ubuntu image is the best OS option IMO](https://github.com/Joshua-Riek/ubuntu-rockchip) **ESPECIALLY** if you're trying to use it as a desktop machine. Everything feels fast and snappy, like, well, a proper a desktop. In particular, 4k video is really smooth with this image, much more so than the other options. Running the ubiquitous "Big Buck Bunny" as a test it would drop maybe a dozen frames in the beginning and then run in 4k with no issues, maybe dropping 1-2 frames out of every 500 or so. 
* The device is very sensitive to power and needs a bit more than your usual SBC, meaning not only does it need more power than a Raspberry Pi (e.g., you can't run it off 2.5-3 Amp phone chargers like a Raspberry Pi), but it will boot off of some chargers and not off of others, even if the power ratings are the same. If you plugged it into a Raspberry Pi power supply or a phone charger and it didn't boot, try something with a bit more juice. Mine only boots from my MacBook charger and the official Orange Pi 5+ charger. I did get it to boot off of the 20W, 40W or 60W outputs of some of my multi-port chargers, but it would sometimes shut off under high load, only the official charger and a MacBook charger saw it operate consistently without any issues. 
* Keeping with the above, if it boots runs and then shuts off when you're doing something, like, say running Geekbench or something else that really pushes it, try switching to a different power supply, as noted before it ran great off of my MacBook charger. 
* The errors I would get when it was plugged into an unsatisfactory were always PCIe related, the link couldn't initialize and the device would go into this cycle of booting and then shutting off. So, in addition to the power supply issues, I suspect using a power efficient NVME drive is a good idea. 
* I couldn't get the official Orange Pi 5+ Wi-Fi card to work, but an Intel AX210 card works just fine for both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. 
* The lights are, odd... if you boot into Armbian the light turns green when things are in process (the first boot is reallly slow by the way), but when it's an Ubuntu image the light flashes red and blue. 
* Trying multiple OSs where you re-image the same NVME or SD card and over can cause an issue where you have multiple boot sectors. Yes, balenaEtcher said it was going to erase all the data, but that didn't seem to work properly. This has never happened to be with Raspberry Pis or any other device, so it "may" be something specific to the Orange Pis. Prior boot sectors and partitions seemed to survive, even though belenaEtcher supposedly erases everything. I resolved this via imaging on my W11 machine: using the disk utility to delete all the partitions, then reformatting it, and then imaging. I had been trying to do this via my Ubuntu Machine and it wasn't taking I guess. Totally possible this is just an error on my part, but figured I'd point it out just in case. 
* I found [Leepspvideo's YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nYruT0q2yLo&t=332s) to be a fairly helpful resource. 
* Plugging it into my 4k Samsung Odyssey G5 was, a problem, it was common for the RGB lighting on the monitor to light up and then the screen to be blank. But on my LG GP850 - no issues, even if it didn't boot up, I at least saw soemthing on the screen. Not sure if this would happen for others, but sharing it anyway 